1. Title: Polish companies bankruptcy

2. Abstract: 

   The dataset is about bankruptcy prediction of Polish companies. The data was collected from Emerging Markets Information Service (EMIS, [Web Link]), which is a database containing information on emerging markets around the world. The bankrupt companies were analyzed in the period 2000-2012, while the still operating companies were evaluated from 2007 to 2013.

3. Relevant Information
   
   Basing on the collected data five classification cases were distinguished, that depends on the forecasting period: 
      
   1stYear the data contains financial rates from 1st year of the forecasting period and corresponding class label that indicates bankruptcy status after 5 years. The data contains 7027 instances (financial statements), 271 represents bankrupted companies, 6756 firms that did not bankrupt in the forecasting period. 

   2ndYear the data contains financial rates from 2nd year of the forecasting period and corresponding class label that indicates bankruptcy status after 4 years. The data contains 10173 instances (financial statements), 400 represents bankrupted companies, 9773 firms that did not bankrupt in the forecasting period. 

   3rdYear the data contains financial rates from 3rd year of the forecasting period and corresponding class label that indicates bankruptcy status after 3 years. The data contains 10503 instances (financial statements), 495 represents bankrupted companies, 10008 firms that did not bankrupt in the forecasting period. 

   4thYear the data contains financial rates from 4th year of the forecasting period and corresponding class label that indicates bankruptcy status after 2 years. The data contains 9792 instances (financial statements), 515 represents bankrupted companies, 9277 firms that did not bankrupt in the forecasting period. 

   5thYear the data contains financial rates from 5th year of the forecasting period and corresponding class label that indicates bankruptcy status after 1 year. The data contains 5910 instances (financial statements), 410 represents bankrupted companies, 5500 firms that did not bankrupt in the forecasting period.


4. Dataset Information
   
   There are 64 attributes about finance technical terms. We did a little classification to separate these attributes by some cognition about attributes' names.
   
   We record the result at attributes_classifier.txt 
   
   Maybe , in the future , we can use more finance information to do this separate work.    
5. Discovery

6. Idea
   
   Because of too many attributes , we need to find the correlation about these attributes by corrplot.
   
   We can find that many attributes are collinear, we will do more dimensions reduction analysis. 
      
7. In lecture questions

   Notice non-statistic action
   
   boxplot with 5 years 0/1.
   
   Missing value should show by years, don't combine them.
   
   In proportion bankruptcy table, need to use chi-square test to convince.
   
   MDS is for ordinal data, we can't convince people easily, if we use MDS rather that PCA.
   
   MDS is try to solve problem where PCA can't solve ordinal data.
   
   why randomforest can do well in high-dimension data.
   
   add some basic plot in data exploratory.
   
   oversampling: how to generate the imbalance data.
   
   undersampling: how many times we do the random sampling would give us the reliable average result.
   
   maybe just focas on bankruptcy structure.
   
   in mnay models result, we should report the variation about results.
   
   we do a little about attributes, maybe in the next time, we should explore more.


